CSE 130 Story Draft
Opening Text: The story begins in the small fishing village near the coast of <Continent name>. <Player
Name> awakens in a small cottage in a daze with no recollection of how they got there. Upon a quick
glance around the room <Player name> realizes they are alone inside of what seems to be a cottage.
Decisions:
1. Get up and leave the cottage.
2. Take a closer look at your surroundings.
D1: You walk outside of the small one room cottage and flinch at the smell around you.
D2: You look around the room with a closer inspection and gain some items before walking out the door
of the cottage. (These items can be anything we want to add as a check to see if the player passes an
event)
(These two decisions still lead to the same next text describing the scenery outside)
Scenery: As you look around you see the buildings destroyed and covered in a foul smelling viscous
substance. There is nothing to indicate that people still live here or may still be here. You look to the
ocean and see something shining into your eyes on the beach.
Decisions:
1. Go to the beach and investigate the shining object.
2. Ignore the object and make your way to the nearest city.
3. Go into the nearby woods
D1: You go to the beach to find the shine is actually a set of armor, and someone seems to still be inside
of it. The knight joins your party (at this point the player would get to name the knight). You and the
knight set off and go where?
Decisions:
1. Go to the nearest city.
2. Head on over to the village again
3. Talk to your new knight friend
D1D1: You and the knight decide to head on to the nearest city of Seamount in search of answers for
what’s happening around you. On the way you discover a wagon that has lost one of its wheels with
someone crying for help inside.
Decisions:
1. Go to the source of the crying.
2. Continue on the way to the city.
D1D1D1: As you and knight feel like it could be possible to abandon the cries for help you just can’t
bring yourselves to do it. You and the knight look inside of the wagon and see a small farm girl crying for
help inside. The Farm Girl joins your party. (At this point the player can name the farm girl as well.)
D1D1D2: You and the knight ignore the blatant and loud cries for help and choose to not lose anytime on
your endeavor to reach the city. Suddenly along the way you and the knight are ambushed by two
plant-like creatures that appear similar in appearance to a venus flytrap. The knight tries his hardest to
hold them off but fails and you as well fall prey to the plants. If only you had someone with you that knew
more about plants like a farmer or maybe that farmer's daughter? (Game ends here with a game over since
the player chose not to help the person in the wagon.)
D1D2: You and the knight feel compelled to head back to the destroyed village once more and find
nothing but destruction and the same green goop lining the rubble. Until you hear the knight call out from
one of the destroyed houses saying that he has found someone. What lies before you is some kind of slime
creature similar to the goop that surrounds the place. It seems friendly enough and follows you and the
knight out of the rubble. Slime has joined your party. (At this point the player can name the slime)
Side Note: These beginning choices dictate the two other party members that the player travels with. And
these choices will matter more in events similar to how you get to spend your money at the beginning of
Oregon trail.
D1D3: You and the knight exchange information about how each of you got there and it appears that
neither of you remember anything, not even your own names. While talking about the strange coincidence
the knight drops a piece of paper out of his pocket. Reading it reveals that the knight had been discharged
for drinking on duty. You both feel a bit embarrassed and decide to head to the city.
D2: You ignore the shiny glint on the beach and trek down the western path to the nearest city of
Seamont. While walking to the city you feel somewhat lonely and isolated as there is not a single sound
except the voice in your head. You begin to imagine a sort of traveling buddy that could really help with
your loneliness on this journey to Seamont. Imaginary Friend has joined the party. (At this point the
player names their imaginary friend and it takes up one of the two party slots.)
D3: Something compels you towards the forest. Wandering about into the forest you begin to walk deeper
and deeper. Until you realize that you are now lost. You try your hardest to recall the direction you came
from but to no avail. After an hour of walking aimlessly you spot someone in the forest and call out to
them. A hunter comes up to you and helps you out of the woods onto the main road. The hunter says that
he can't find any animals in the entire forest and doesn't remember anything about who he is. He decides
to head with you to Seamont in search of answers.
Road to Seamont: Finally you and your party members are off to Seamont in search of answers and
unaware of the troubles that may lie ahead.
Consequences based on party members while on the path:
Knight and Farm girl: While on the path to Seamount you realize that you are starving and ask the farm
girl if there is anything you could forage for in the woods along the path. The farmer girl forages for a
second and hands you a strange looking mushroom.
Decisions:
1. Eat the mushroom.
2. Pass on the mushroom.
D1:You eat the mushroom and feel a strange tingle throughout your body. As this feeling goes through
your legs you drop to the floor instantly and the knight and farm girl go to help you up. You try to stand
on your own but to no avail. There is no sensation or feeling in either of your legs. Luckily the knight
offers to carry you the rest of the way to Seamont. (At this point the player loses the ability to walk and
the knight loses any potential to defend himself while carrying the player)
D2: You pass on the mushroom and decide that it is better if the party waits until they arrive in Seamont
to search for some kind of nourishment.
Knight and Slime: The knight and slime make for a merry traveling party and the entire time you feel a
sort of elation about what might be in store for you all in Seamont. You suddenly feel famished and
somehow like it were reading your mind the slime splits a part of itself off. It emotes towards you and its
movements read as if it were beckoning you to eat the split piece. Although you are humbled by the offer
the goop reeks and is currently on the floor.
Decisions:
1. Eat the slime
2. Don't eat the slime.
D1: Reluctantly you put the slime in your mouth and despite the putrid smell it actually tastes quite good.
Suddenly you feel a tingle run through your body and you feel as if you have gotten stronger somehow.
(The player gains strength that will be important later on).
D2: You choose to not eat the slime. Slime motions a somewhat sad face as best it can. The knight feels
sorry for the creature and eats the slime off the floor. The knight feels completely find and even goes as
far to say that slime tasted delicious
Imaginary Friend: You and your imaginary friend have a great time on the path to Seamont playing some
childish games along the way. Until you hear your stomach growling and find yourself starving from all
the walking you’ve been doing. Your imaginary friend volunteers to go and find some food for you. As he
heads off into the woods you wait patiently on the road for him to come back. A while passes and he
comes back with nothing. Since he isn’t real and can’t interact with anything in the real world. You
continue down the path. (Maybe add some kind of negative trait to the player).
Hunter: You and the hunter chat while walking and after a while you both get hungry. Luckily the hunter
is very knowledgeable on all of the wild berries and plants in the area. He leaves and comes back in a
couple minutes with a cape full of wild plants and fruits. You and the hunter eat your fill and feel great
about the rest of your journey. (Maybe some bonus for being well fed but also kind of just the standard
nothing happens party member moment).
Arriving in Seamont: After the trial and tribulations of a simple walk to Seamont you and your party
finally arrive. Something is strange though the city gates are open and there isn’t much noise coming from
the city. The building and sprawling castle seen from outside of the city walls seem to be in perfect
condition. After examining the outside of the city you and your party head on in and see if they can find